Given the same level of labor and capital, countries today can produce much more efficiently than decades ago due to increased aggregate productivity of labor. Economist in the 1950s attributed most of this growth to technological advancement. (Abramovitz 1956; Kendrick 1956; Solow 1957). Earlier models regard technology as exogenous variable that has to be observed empirically; however, more recent models such as an endogenous technological change model by Romer (1990) internalize technological as a consequence of profit-maximizing investors.

The technological innovation requires resource commitment by investors and involves high risk of failure. This should lead to a slowdown of economic growth of technologically-advanced countries operating at frontiers. On the other hand, countries with lower technological capital stock can benefit from the spillover of R&D and grow faster, catching up to advanced countries. The so-called "convergence" of economic growth is, however, not well supported by empirical evidence. In the survey of convergence literature in the past five decades by Johnson and Papageorgiou (2020), the income gap between poorer and richer countries has generally been more persistent than the theory would suggest.

This led to a formulation of "conditional convergence," which states that two countries will only reach the same steady state of economic growth if their internal factors supporting economic growth are at the same level. Numerous studies attempt to determine the internal factors affecting steady state of economic growth. For example, Barro and Sala-i-Martin (2004, ch.12) used a panel of 88 countries examined 67 explanatory variables commonly used in empirical growth literature, including, life expectancy, fertility rate, rule of law index, education, investment ratio, level, government expenditure ratio, openness, terms-of-trade, inflation, democracy, etc. The significance of each variable depends greatly on the functional forms and the set of variables used (Barro 2015). Furthermore, some factors such as government expenditure ratio and democracy indicator are surprisingly insignificant in Barro 2015.

In order to explain such observations, economic models with new assumptions are formulated. Recently, Arawatari (2023) proposed a heterogeneous-agents model that can explain the muted effect of moderate government expenditure on economic growth. This model has the benefit of explaining why an increase in government spending on infrastructures incentivizes only a small portion of the population to innovate and increase output potential. The paper extensively explores the heterogeneity assumption of the labor market. It relies on the assumption that household agents have heterogeneous entrepreneurial ability; thus, they have different threshold to engage in innovation. On the contrary, it opts for representative agents to explain household spending and asset holding.

This assumption is open to question because agents in financial markets have different risk tolerance and preference of assets. The choice agents make also depends on macroeconomic variables such as policy interest rate, world interest rate, inflation, political stability, and volatility of the market. Since investing in innovative companies, whether with fixed income assets or equities, can generate high return at a cost of higher risk, this characteristic allows us to distinguish between innovative and non-innovative investment decisions.

We can test the robustness of our findings with panel of ... countries with ... variables.


